fix: improvements to the descriptions around RAR and CIBA (#615)
auth0/docs-v2: main/docs/get-started/apis/configure-rich-authorization-requests.mdx

title: Configure Rich Authorization Requests (RAR)
---

Using [Rich Authorization Requests (RAR)](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-oauth-rar), clients can request and obtain <Tooltip tip="Fine-grained Authorization (FGA): Auth0 product allowing individual users access to specific objects or resources." cta="View Glossary" href="/docs/glossary?term=fine-grained+authorization">fine-grained authorization</Tooltip> data from <Tooltip tip="Resource Owner: Entity (such as a user or application) capable of granting access to a protected resource." cta="View Glossary" href="/docs/glossary?term=resource+owners">resource owners</Tooltip>, such as end users, during the [Authorization Code Flow with Pushed Authorization Requests (PAR)](/docs/get-started/authentication-and-authorization-flow/authorization-code-flow/authorization-code-flow-with-par) and [Client-Initiated Backchannel Authentication Flow](/docs/get-started/authentication-and-authorization-flow/client-initiated-backchannel-authentication-flow).

> A Rich Authorization request is one that uses the `authorization_details` parameter. This parameter accepts a JSON array of objects. Allowing more flexibility and structure than the `scope` parameter, `authorization_details` can include detailed information about the authorization being requested, such as the specific resources or actions the client wants to access on behalf of the user.

Author: I modified your proposal by adding "a JSON array of objects _which may_ include detailed information"

> Rich Authorization requests use the `authorization_details` parameter. This parameter accepts a JSON array of objects which may include detailed information about the authorization being requested, such as the specific resources or actions the client wants to access on behalf of the user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Rich Authorization Requests use the `authorization_details` parameter. This parameter accepts a JSON array of objects which may include detailed information about the authorization being requested, such as the specific resources or actions the client wants to access on behalf of the user.
```

You can render the requested `authorization_details` to the user using either:

 * The browser, by using the Customized Consent Prompt

>  * A mobile application when using push notifications with the [Auth0 Guardian SDK or Guardian app](/docs/secure/multi-factor-authentication/auth0-guardian).

Author: Fixed in 83f0ff19f0bc809f74f7e4e38c3a4029997a98c2.

  --data-raw '{
  "name": "Payments API",
  "identifier": "https://payments.api/",
  "authorization_details": [{"type": "payment_initiation"}]
  }'
```

</Tab></Tabs>

## Configure the API Access policies

[API Access Policies for Applications](/docs/get-started/apis/api-access-policies-for-applications) control what applications can access your APIs and what scopes or `authorization_details` types they are allowed to access.

> You can check your API's current policy using the management API. Make a `GET` request to the [Get a resource server](https://auth0.com/docs/api/management/v2/resource-servers/get-resource-servers-by-id) endpoint and check the `subject_type_authorization` property in the response:

Author: Fixed in 83f0ff19f0bc809f74f7e4e38c3a4029997a98c2.

<th><strong>Behavior</strong></th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>Any</td>
<td>No</td>
<td>The customized consent prompt is shown.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Authorization Code Flow with PAR</td>
<td>Yes</td>
<td>
  <p>
    No consent prompt is shown. The consent must be shown on the mobile application that receives the push notification challenge. 
  </p>
  <p>
    If the Auth0 Guardian app is used, it will automatically display the `authorization_details` to the user.
  </p>
  <p>
    If a custom mobile app is used, the `authorization_details` can be retreived using the Auth0 Guardian SDK.
  </p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Client Initiated Backchannel Authentication Flow</td>
<td>Yes</td>
<td>
  <p>
    If the Auth0 Guardian App is being used to authorize the CIBA request, the `authorization_details` will be fetched automatically and displayed.
  </p>
  <p>
    If a custom mobile app is used to authorize the CIBA request the `authorization_details` can be retreived using the Auth0 Guardian SDK.
  </p>
  <p>
    If the CIBA request is being authorized using a web link (e.g. from an email), then the customized consent prompt will be shown.
  </p>
  <p>

>     Customers may choose to also trigger a push notificaiton as a second factor for the CIBA request being approved by a web link, in which case the behavior will be the same as above, the Auth0 Guardian app will automatically display the `authorization_details` to the user again, while custom mobile apps can choose to retrieve the `authorization_details` using the Auth0 Guardian SDK.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Customers may choose to also trigger a push notification as a second factor for the CIBA request when being approved by a web link, in which case the behavior will be the same as above. The Auth0 Guardian app will automatically display the `authorization_details` to the user again, while custom mobile apps can choose to retrieve the `authorization_details` using the Auth0 Guardian SDK.
```
